well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we are going to talk about a
talking point
a presidential talking point no less
we're going to do this because donald
trump keeps bringing something up and
talking about it over and over and over
again and the more he talked about it
the more i remembered that i took
basic civics and what he was saying just
didn't add up
so i decided to start adding stuff up
and in the process i found out that npr
done
pretty much all the work for me thanks
guys um
if you don't know president trump is
attempting to paint this image
that joe biden is going to
defund the police and then there will be
chaos
in the streets it's just going to be
uncontrollable it's going to be madness
now if you're a bind supporter yes i
understand biden didn't say this the
president is just making it up i've got
that
okay but let's just pretend for a moment
that biden does he becomes president
and then he defunds the police to the
best of his ability
what does that look like
okay so you have the cops program which
is community oriented policing services
in 2020 it had 400 million dollars to
give away
you have the edward byrne memorial
justice assistance grant
program and in 2019 it had uh
264 million i don't have this year's
numbers
there's also a dhs preparedness grant
program it has a budget of 1.8 billion
but only 25 percent of that is
uh has to go to law enforcement so
that's 450 million but it doesn't matter
we're going to go ahead and take the
full 1.8 billion dollars
because there are some smaller grant
programs that we don't have the numbers
for
but they will not add up to the
additional 1.35 billion
of the dhs program it's stuff like we'll
help you buy vests or body cams the
department of agriculture will help
towns that have less than 5 000 people
buy a patrol car
stuff like that as far as cash changing
hands
there you go now on top of this the
department of defense has
a program called 1033
and that hands old military equipment
to law enforcement the value
of the equipment that gets transferred
it fluctuates
wildly year by year but if you average
it all
out from 1990 to 2018
the average per year of the value is
about 200 million dollars so you add
all of this up you get a whopping 2.6
billion dollars
that's enough to run nypd for about
three months
the feds don't fund your local
department
that's not a thing even if joe biden
cut off all the assistance it wouldn't
matter
that's not where they get their money
the state and local officials spend
depending on how you figure it
between 115 billion
and 194 billion on law enforcement and
corrections depending on how you figure
that
so let's just take the 115 billion it's
what
two percent the fed's
chipping two percent on that i don't
think that's going to be the difference
between a functioning society and chaos
that seems ridiculous so at the end of
the day
we are left with one of two options
either president trump just does not
understand
basic civics and how local departments
get
funded or he is intentionally misleading
people
to scare them from where i sit either
one of those is plausible
because he has not proven himself to
understand how the government works
and he has proven that he will happily
fear monger at
any opportunity so it could be both to
be honest
but either way joe biden
defunding the police should not be a
concern
this is not something that you weigh
heavily on your vote
it's not a thing you at the local level
somehow
fund your local police department the
feds don't foot that bill
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night